Okay, so
the next thing I wanna move on to,
we're gonna take a look at some
figures and figure captions.
I'm actually gonna go back to old
school absolute relative positioning.
So what we've got going on here is
we've got four very cool pictures,
there they are.
And they have captions that
are associated with them.
So we're working with this same concept
here of figures and figure captions.
And as you see here, there's the figure,
they're all pretty much the same,
obviously, they have different images.
But there we go, there's the figure,
here's our image.
Here's our figure caption, and we've
got a bunch of these here on the page.
Now what I'd like to do, one of the things
that we often like to do with figures and
figure captions like this,
is we can display them like this and
that is just fine.
But we may like to take
that figure caption and
display it on top of the figure, and
maybe make it a little bit transparent.
And it'll be really cool kinda
looking in order to do that.
With Flexbox, the best way to
approach this is using absolute and
relative positioning.
And the thing is, with absolute and
relative positioning,
when you get taught this stuff,
it's really kind of complicated.
And people get very confused
by the all of the absolute and
relative positioning stuff
that goes along with this.
And so I wanted to take the time to walk
you through exactly how absolute and
relative positioning works,
and why it works.
Again, in isolation rather than just
sort of giving you a formula for
how to do this.
So this is the CSS that we
have here to start with.
Basically, here's our figure,
we've turned off the margin
that was set by the browser.
Here's our caption styling, it's basically
the same stuff that you've already seen.
Here's our margin, and then here's
a hack to make our images flexible.
So, notice that I set our
images to 100% for the width.
So the way this works is that
images are an inline element.
They are by default set to be
as wide as the image is itself.
And if you make a screen too small,
you've probably seen this before,
you will start to get
a scroll bar on the bottom,
you'll have to scroll over to
see the rest of the image.
When you put a width of 100% on your
images, they will expand to fill
their container, and they will
also shrink down proportionately.
This is a very fake responsive image,
this is not true responsive images.
But what it does do is it lets
our images flex a little bit,
such that as we're working here,
inside of our code pen,
we get a sense of a flexible image.
And then down here in the media queries,
basically, I'm just
putting these on a row so
that they don't stack on
top of each other and
then they go to a two
by two grid like this.
So a really, really simple layout.
Okay, so
the next thing that I wanna do is, and
I'm gonna put it up here, right here
at the top around line number 7,
where I've got the figure declaration,
I'm going to add to
this a display of flex.
How cool is that?
So just by saying display flex,
I've managed to put the caption
next to these images.
So we had them set up
stacked on top of each other,
which is the default behavior
with figure and figure caption.
By just saying display flex,
they now just appear next to each
other horizontally here in space.
If you want this, you can keep it,
that's absolutely fine.
But you can also rearrange it, somebody
was asking about when to use column.
Well, here's a place where
it would make perfect sense,
we could say our flex flow is column,
no wrap.
So that's gonna put our caption and
our image right next to each other,
stacked very nicely on top of each other,
just like this.
Notice there's no little space in
between them that we had before with
the figure caption, which is coming
from the browser and somewhere.
Okay, so now for the figure caption,
here's what I'm going to do ust after
all of the stuff that I've got here.
If we said position of absolute,
This is going to immediately
take all of our captions and just
stick them somewhere here on the page.
And in this case, it happens to put
it up in the upper left-hand corner.
The reason why this happens
is that the caption itself is
going to work its way up, it's HTML here.
We start with a caption, it's looking for
some sort of element where
it will eventually go all the way up to
the top left-hand corner of the web page.
But by setting this up
with Flexbox like this,
it will go up to the upper
left-hand corner of the figure.
The other way that we do this
without Flexbox, [INAUDIBLE] you can
do here as well, would be to say
position of relative on the figure.
And that will tell the absolutely
positioned element where
should it be absolutely
positioned relative to.
If there's no relative position
declared anywhere on the web page,
it will eventually wind up in the top
left-hand corner of your screen.
This is why we often set
position of relative first,
because we're gonna put
it relative to that,
and then we have our absolute
positioning within that particular area.
So here, it's gonna be within
the figure boundaries,
where are we going to set our
absolutely positioned caption?
So we need a little bit more,
probably a little bit more styling
here on this figure caption.
So I'm going to say the bottom is 0%, so
we'll put it down there on the bottom.
And we can also say the width is a 100%,
so
they'll stretch very
nicely across our finger.
And the little sizzle part would be to do
something with opacity, of say 0.7.
There we go.
So now we can see the image
coming through underneath.
So now we have a very attractive way of
laying out our images here on the web page
with this cool little figure.
And hopefully this also
sparked some ideas for
you of things that you could
do with this figure caption.
Right now, it's just set to stay
there across all dimensions, right?
It's just always gonna have this lovely
figure caption on top of these things.
But, if you wanted,
you could do something where
the figure caption maybe shifts
when you have a wider screen.
You can take that figure caption and
display it to the right or
to the left of your image if
you wanted to using Flexbox,
instead of displaying
it on top of the image.
So you have a lot of flexibility once
you start looking at these in terms of
micro layouts, instead of sort
of the giant layout of the whole
webpage
>> So
flex grow one evenly distributes elements.
So I was just wondering if the media query
scenario fitting everything on one row
could be used that for the elements of
the same width instead of calculating
the percentage for the flex basis
>> Okay, all right,
I understand the question
a little bit better now.
So it's flex grow, I had heard
flex flow and I was very confused.
Flex grow,
just changing the value of flex grow as
you go between various media queries.
You probably could do that, but
you are leaving a lot of
calculation to the browser.
And so when you leave
calculations to the browser,
that means every browser may do their
calculations slightly differently.
I would think that that is probably not
an approach that you would want to do for
that reason.
But you could certainly
experiment with it,
try it across a whole bunch of different
browsers, see if you get something
that you like, that would be
one way of thinking about it.
But the flex basis methodology
that I've talked about here
is pretty straightforward to understand.
It kind of is kind of like width,
it's just a little bit different.
And I think it's conceptually a little bit
easier to understand than doing things
with flex grow.
>> How is fig caption with
accessibility in mind?
>> Fig caption is awesome
with accessibility in mind.
When you start with
semantically good HTML,
you have a much better chance of
hitting your accessibility targets.
Here, the whole purpose of figure
in fig caption is the following.
So it's to associate some sort of label,
the text, right, the caption,
associate it with whatever you
have inside of the figure.
Whether that's an image or
a code snippet, or ASCII art, or
whatever other craziness
you wanna put in there.
And so using this semantic markup is
a really wonderful way of doing that.
The other thing that a figure does,
I haven't really talked about,
when you have a figure itself,
it indicates that that particular
element kinda stands alone.
So we can pull it out and we can put it
elsewhere on the page in terms of layout,
and we're not destroying
the message of the page.
So if you're using an image
by itself on the page,
it appears where it appears in
your layout, and that's fine.
But with a figure,
we might move it around,
and you can think about this
back to like a textbook.
So if you're reading a textbook and
it says in figure one,
be sure to take note of blah, blah, blah,
blah, and you look around on the page,
you may have to look aways.
And then you find figure one,
it's labeled as figure one, right,
with whatever picture it is, it isn't
necessarily right next to the text.
So likewise here in HTML,
your figure can move around on that page.
It doesn't have to stay
in one particular place.
>> Does figure act as a thumbnail for
the video?
>> Figure as a thumbnail for video?
No, I think what you're thinking
of is the poster attribute.
So in the video element, there is a poster
attribute that will be the static
image that displays on top of your video.